BASICLEVEL
1.What command is used to get the IP addresses of all interfaces on a server?
	“ifconfig” in Linux and Mac OS
	“ipconfig” in Windows OS

2.What is the purpose of "mv" command?
	"mv" command used to 1. rename/make a copy of one file contain in another file or 2. move one file/directory contain to another file/directory.
	mv [option] one_file another_file
	If the destination file doesn’t exist, it will be created. In the above command mv simply replaces the source filename in the directory with the destination filename (new name). If the destination file exists, then it will be overwritten, and the source file will be deleted.
	Following options control on overwritten existing file.
	-i <-- It will ask the user whether they want to overwrite or no.
	-n <-- -n option, mv prevent an existing file from being overwritten and nothing to happen as a file would be overwritten.
	-f <---f option overrides this minor protection and overwrite the destination file forcefully and delete the source file.
	-b <-- This option it is easier to take a backup of an existing file that will be overwritten as a result of the mv command. This will create a backup file with the tilde character (~) appended to it.	

3.Which command is used to create a new empty file?
	Create a new empty file
	By using "touch" 
	i.e., 
	touch new_file.txt
	touch new_file_1.txt, new_file_2.txt, new_file_3.txt

4.Which command is used to display the contents of a directory?
      “cat”
      i.e. 	 cat file_name

5.Which command is used to display all the file names a long with their types of the current directory?
	ls -a

6.Which command is used to clear the terminal?
	“clear”

7.What are daemons?
	A daemon (also known as background processes) is a Linux or UNIX program that runs in the background. Almost all daemons have names that end with the letter "d". For example, httpd the daemon that handles the Apache server, or sshd which handles SSH remote access connections. Linux often start daemons at boot time.

8.Which command is used to move to the parent directory?
   	"cd .." use to go to the parent directory,
   	"cd /" use to go to the root directory, and
	"cd" or "cd ~" use to go to the user home directory.

9.What does echo command do?
	"echo" command will print the text line as a string.


10.How to display content of a file?
	"cat" command will display content of a file.

11.How to identify which shell you are using?
	“echo $SHELL”
	“echo $0”
	“ps”

12.How do you check if a particular service is running?
	“service [service_name] status”

13.What is the command to run a program with elevated permissions?
	“ls -l”

14.Which command is used to display the path of the current working directory?
	“pwd”

15.How to delete a directory forcefully?
	“rm -rf dirName”

16.Which command is used to switch from super user to normal user?
	“su - normal_user”

17.How to switch to superuser (root) with elevated permissions?
	“su – root”

18.How to determine the type of a file?
	“file [file_name]”
	

INTERMEDIATE LEVEL
1.What are the different modes when using VI editor?
	Two modes of operation in vi are entry mode and command mode. 
	Entry mode use to type text into a file, 
	Command mode is used to type commands that perform specific vi functions.

2.Which command is used to create multiple directories simultaneously?
	"mkdir" to create a directory,i.e.,
      mkdir test1
for create multiple directories "mkdir" and urly brackets {}, we can create multiple directory.i.e.,
      mkdir {test1, test2, test3}

3.What is LILO?
      LILO stands for Linux Loader that is used to load Linux into memory. It can boot operating systems from floppy disks, hard disks, and it does not depend on a specific file system.
4.How cd ~, cd / and cd - are different from each other?
	"cd ~" --> Brings you to your home directory.
	"cd -" --> Brings you to your previous directory of the current directory.
	"cd /" --> It takes you to the entire system's root directory.

5.What is a grep command?
      "grep" is a Linux command-line tool used to search for a string of characters in a specified file.

6.If we are in the directory X and we are running rmdir X being in that directory X. Will this command successfully remove the directory or not?
      No, it will not delete the directory. and it will give error "rmdir: x: No such file or directory" 
      So, if you are inside X directory then you cannot delete X directory. But you can delete any directory/file is present inside directory X.
	
7.What are the contents of /usr/local?
	 The /usr/local hierarchy is for use by the system administrator when installing software locally. 
	 It needs to be safe from being overwritten when the system software is updated. 
	 It may be used for programs and data that are shareable amongst a group of hosts, but not found in /usr.
	 Locally installed software must be placed within /usr/local rather than /usr unless it is being installed to replace or upgrade software in /usr.
8.Which command is used to display the current username?
	“whoami”
9.What command is used to change your password?
	“passwd”
10.How to find the difference in two configuration files?
 	“diff file_1 file_2”
11.How to find where a file is located in Linux?
	“whereis file_name”
12.Which command shows the users that are logged in?
      “who”
13.How to forcefully stop a process which is running in the background?
	“kill processID”
14.Which command is used to list the name of files starting from any particular alphabet or string?
	“find string”
15.How to move multiple files of the same extension to a different directory?
      “mv *.file_extension destination_dir”
16.What command would you use to check how much memory is being used?
	“top” for RAM
	“df -h” for ROM
17.Which command is used to display the list of content in reverse order?
	“ls -r”
18.What command is used to show how long it's been since the server was rebooted?
	“who -b”
19.What command is used to change the ownership of a file?
	“su”


ADVANCED LEVEL
1.How to see the list of mounted devices on a Linux system?
	“mount”
      “df”
2.How to check disk usage in terms of kilobytes(K), megabytes(M) and gigabytes(G)?
	“df -h”
3.What is Swap Space? What is a typical size for a swap partition in Linux?
      Swap space in Linux is used when the amount of physical memory (RAM) is full. If the system needs more memory resources and the RAM is full, inactive pages in memory are moved to the swap space. While swap space can help machines with a small amount of RAM, it should not be considered a replacement for more RAM. Swap space is located on hard drives, which have a slower access time than physical memory.
      
4.How would you schedule a task in Linux?
	The Cron daemon is a built-in Linux utility that runs processes on your system at a scheduled time.
	1. open the crontab configuration file for the current user.
      		crontab -e
      		(it will open a new tab.)
	2.   add instructions and add any number of scheduled tasks, one per line.
	Scheduled tasks are followed by this format.
	a b c d e /directory/command output
		a - minutes (0-59)
		b - hours (0-23)
		c - days(1-31)
		d - month (1-12)
		e - days of the week (0-7)(0 and 7 are Sunday)
	3. Once you have finished adding tasks, save the file and exit. The cron daemon will read and execute the instructions provided.
5.How these commands would be working try and explain (files contain “hello” word):
	All the string which are looking for should be in quotation mark (" ").
	grep -v -i hello file1.txt--> When you want to display the lines which does not matches the given string/pattern, use the option -v, and –i searches for the given string/pattern case insensitively.
	grep -i hello file2.txt --> This searches for the given string/pattern case insensitively.
	grep -A 2 hello file2.txt --> A is the option which prints the specified 2 lines after the match as shown below.
	grep -C 4 hello file1.txt --> C is the option which prints the specified 4 lines before and after the match.
	grep -B 3 hello file1.txt --> B is the option which prints the specified 3 lines before the match.
	ps -ef | more--> ps (Process Status) command is used to view the system status of the current process, "-e" option instructs ps to display all processes, the "-f" stands full-format listing, which provides detailed information about the processes, and "more" will allows you to view the contents of a file and navigate through file.
	awk '{print $2, $5;}' employee.txt--> this command will print 2nd and 5th word of the line, and word will be separate by space.
6.What is the export command used for? (Give Example)
	The export command is a built-in utility of Linux Bash shell. It is used to ensure the environment variables and functions to be passed to child processes. 
Example, if I assign
export

7.Explain the redirection operator?
	Redirection is a feature in Linux such that when executing a command, you can change the standard input/output devices.
	The standard input (stdin) device is the keyboard. And the screen is standard output (stdout) device. By using redirection, standard input/output can be changed. The '>' symbol is used for output (STDOUT) redirection, and the ">>" appends the output to an existing file. The '<' symbol is used for input (STDIN) redirection, ">&"re-directs output of one file to another. Also, we can redirect the error using its corresponding File Descriptor 2.

8.Which command is used to review boot messages?
	“dmesg”
9.Which command is used to change the permissions of a file? Explain its usage?
	“chmod NNN file_name”

	N is Octal value
Octal Value 	File Permissions Set 	Permissions Description 
0 	---	No permissions 
1	--x	Execute permission only 
2	-w-	Write permission only 
3	-wx	Write and execute permissions 
4	 r-- 	Read permission only 
5	 r-x	Read and execute permissions 
6	rw-	Read and write permissions 
7	 rwx 	Read, write, and execute permissions

10.Which command would you use to create a file system on a new hard drive?
	“mkfs”
11.How to compress files in Linux?
	To compress file, we can use following command in linux zip"tar","zip","gzip","bzip2"and "xz". 
12.Which file is used to automatically mount file systems on boot?
	“root”
13.Find out the purpose of each of the following commands:
	shutdown--> The shutdown command brings the system down in a secure way.
	diff--> "diff" command is used to display the differences in the files by comparing the files line by line.
	sort --> "sort" command is used to sort a file, arranging the records in a particular order.
	ps--> ps command (Process Status) is used to list the currently running processes and display information about those processes,
	kill--> "kill" command sends a signal to a process which terminates the process.
	mount--> "mount" command mounts a storage device or filesystem, making it accessible and attaching it to an existing directory structure.
	nano--> “nano” is a user-friendly, simple text editor. We can create a new file just like the vim command.
14. What are symbolic links? How do you create one using command?
      A symbolic link (or "symlink") is a file system feature that can be used to create a link to a specific file or folder. It is similar to a Windows "shortcut" or Mac "alias," but is not an actual file. Instead, a symbolic link is an entry in a file system that points to a directory or file. The system recognizes the symbolic link as the actual directory or file, providing an alternate way to access it.
      ln -s source_file myfile
      Replace source_file with the name of the existing file for which you want to create the symbolic link (this file can be any existing file or directory across the file systems). Replace myfile with the name of the symbolic link. The ln command then creates the symbolic link. After you've made the symbolic link, you can perform an operation on or execute myfile, just as you could with the source_file. 

15. How would you copy a file or a directory from your system to another system on the same network?
	Scp username1@source_host:directory1/file1username2@destination_host:directory2/
